## Create CI Pipeline.

### Skeleton CI pipeline.
In VS Code, add a new file called `.gitlab-ci.yml` to the project's base folder. Copy the following code into the file:
~~~yaml
variables:
   APP_NAME: 'profileapp'
   DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME: 'doconnor'. # Change to your Docker Hub username

stages:
   - build
   - test

build-and-publish:
  image: docker:20.10.16
  stage: build
  script:
     - echo "Build stage executed"
     - docker --version

base-test:
  stage: test
  image: docker:20.10.16
  before_script:
     - echo 'Execute before main script'
  script: 
     - echo 'Reference a variable - '  ${APP_NAME}
~~~
[Note: You must set the DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME variable to your Docker Hub account username.]

The above file declares a pipeline consisting of two stages, each with one job. A job executes inside a Docker container, and in both cases, we use the same Docker image - a Linux image with the Docker command line tool installed on top - see [here][dockeri]. The commands executed inside the jobs are trivial in this example pipeline; they echo some strings to the container's command line. In VS Code, type the following commands:
~~~bash
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m "Skeleton CI pipeline."
$ git push origin main
~~~

When GitLab detects the YAML file's presence, a pipeline execution is triggered. To confirm this, in the browser tab displaying your Gitlab repository, in the left-hand sidebar, select Build -> Pipelines. After the pipeline has completed executing, click the tick mark for the build stage and select the build-and-publish job. Gitlab displays the terminal output generated inside the Docker container that executed the job.


### Build Image Job.

In `.gitlab-ci.yml`, replace the build-and-publish job with the following:
~~~yaml
build-and-publish::
  image: docker:27.0.2-cli-alpine3.20
  services:
    - docker:27.0.2-dind-alpine3.20
  stage: build
  script:
     - echo "Build stage executed"
     - docker build -t ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME}/${APP_NAME} .
     - docker login -u ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME} -p ${DOCKER_HUB_TOKEN}
     - docker tag  ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME}/${APP_NAME}  ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME}/${APP_NAME}:${CI_COMMIT_SHORT_SHA} 
    - docker push ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME}/${APP_NAME}:${CI_COMMIT_SHORT_SHA}
~~~
The intent of this job is to build a fresh image of the user profile web app. The image's name is prefixed with your Docker Hub username and tagged with the SHA1 hash (short form) of the most recent Git commit, e.g.

>> doconnor/profileapp:715bae7f 

Before performing a 'docker push' command, the pipeline job must log in to your Docker Hub account:

> docker login -u ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME} -p ${DOCKER_HUB_TOKEN}

A login request can be authenticated with a password (interactive mode) or a token (programmatic mode). 

--------------------------
#### Docker Hub Token.
Open a browser tab at Docker Hub and log in to your account. Then, click the avatar on the top right, select Account Settings, select Security (left sidebar), and click the New Access Token button. Type GitLab CICD as the description and click Generate Token. Copy the token value into the clipboard for later use.

--------------------------
Sensitive data, such as tokens, should not be included directly in the GitLab YAML file. Instead, we declare them as Gitlab __environment variable__. In the GitLab browser page, follow this sequence:

+ In the left-hand sidebar, select Settings -> CI/CD. 
+ Scroll down and click the Variables heading. 
+ Click the 'Add Variable' button on the right.

Complete the form as follows:

+ Set Type to Variable.
+ Set Environment to All
+ Set Visibility to Visible. 
+ All Flag options should be unticked / blank.
+ Set Key to DOCKER_HUB_TOKEN.
+ Set Value to the generated token value you copied into the clipboard.
+ Click the Save Changes button and close the form. 
 
-----------------------------

Returning to our YAML file, the docker login cammand will now be able to successfully authenticate with a full set of credentials:

>> docker login -u ${DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME} -p ${DOCKER_HUB_TOKEN}

#### GitLab Services.

Also in the YAML file, we uses the Services option in the job defintiions:
~~~yaml
build-and-publish::
  image: docker:27.0.2-cli-alpine3.20
  services:
    - docker:27.0.2-dind-alpine3.20
  stage: build
  script:
    - . . . . . . . 
~~~

" When you configure CI/CD, you specify an image, which is used to create the container where your jobs run. To specify this image, you use the image keyword.
You can specify an additional image by using the services keyword. This additional image is used to create another container, which is available to the first container. The two containers have access to one another and can communicate when running the job." GitLab Documentation

Our build job uses the Services option to run a container with the Docker In Docker image. This image contains the Docker Deamon (aka Docker Runtim or Docker Server). The Deamon performs docker build tasks, for example. 
~~~yaml
some-job:
  image: docker:27.0.2-cli-alpine3.20
  services:
     - docker:27.0.2-dind-alpine3.20.  <-----|  Deamon/Server
  stage: build                               |
  script:                                    |
     - docker build -t ______ .      <-------|  Client
~~~

-------------------------------

Returning to VS Code, we can now push our CI pipeline changes to the GitLab repository and trigger a pipeline execution as follows:
~~~bash
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m "Added  Image build and publish job to CI pipeline."
$ git push origin main
~~~
In the GitLab browser tab, from the sidebar select Build -> Pipelines. Wait for the current pipeline execution to complete. Switch to the browser tab that's showing your Docker Hub account, and select the Repositories tab in the page header. A new entry for your 'profileapp' image should appear in the list of repositories. The pipeline push the image to your account. 

[dockeri]: https://hub.docker.com/_/docker