This lab is designed to enhance the pipeline structures we've built using the GitLab service. The enhancement will introduce a deployment stage, culminating in a comprehensive CI/CD process. 

## Setup.
For the sake of variety, we will use a different application as the context for this lab. Create a folder (anywhere), and from there, clone a repository as follows:
~~~bash
$ git clone
~~~
The repository contains a web-based implementation of the [2048 Number Puzzle Game][game]. Import the project into VS Code and type the following commands:
~~~bash
$  docker build -t  2048game:1.0  .
 $ docker run -d -p 3000:80 --name 2048game   2048game:1.0
~~~
Notice in the project's Dockerfile that the image of this app is based on the NGINX web server, and all the project's files are copied to the web server's base directory (/usr/share/nginx/html) 
 
In a browser tab, navigate to http://localhost:3000/ to play the game.

Push this image to your Docker Hub account as follows:
~~~bash
$ docker login 
 $ docker tag  2048game:1.0  myhubusername/2048game:1.0
 $ docker push  myhubusername/2048game:1.0
~~~
[Replace myhubusername with your Hub username.]
## Manual Deployment.

We will first __manually__ deploy this app to the AWS EC2 cloud service and then apply a CI/CD pipeline to automate any subsequent deployments of updates to the game. 

Log in to your AWS account using a browser tab. We refer to this website as the AWS Management Console. In the Management Console, type EC2 in the search box in the page header and select the EC2 service in the list of matches. First, we want to create a public/private key pair to facilitate SSH communication later in this lab. Follow these steps:
Select Key Pairs in the left panel (under Network & Security)
Click the Create key pair button on the top right.
Enter cicdpair for the name.
Select RSA as the type.
Select .pem as the file format.
Click the Create key pair button.
A file named `cicdpair.pem` has been downloaded to your computer. It contains the private key of this key pair. You will need this file later. 

We can now create an EC2 virtual machine instance to host our dockerized game application. Follow these steps in the Management /console:

Click Instances (under Instances) on the left panel.
Click the Launch Instance button on the top right.
Enter DockerHost for the Launch template name.
In the Application and OS Images section,  under the Quick Start, select Amazon Linux
In the Instance type section, select t2.micro as the type.
In the Key pair section, select cicdpair from the dropdown list.
In the Networking section, choose Create Security group and tick Allow SSH, Allow HTTP, and Allow HTTPS.
Scroll to the bottom of the page and click the Launch Instance button.






[game]: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.estoty.game2048&hl=en