## Demo App 1.

Import the User Profile web app from earlier labs into VS Code. In the base folder, create a file called `compose.yaml (the file name is arbitrary, unlike Dockerfile) and paste in the following:
~~~yaml
version: '3'
networks:
   profile-network:
       external: true
       name: 'mongo-network'
services:
  app:
    container_name: profileapp
    image: profileapp:1.0
    build: .
    ports:
      - 3000:3000
    environment:
      - MONGO_PASS=secret
      - MONGO_HOST=mongodb 
    networks:
       - profile-network
    depends_on:
      - mongodb

  mongodb:
    container_name: mongoDB
    image: mongo:8.0-rc
    ports:
      - 27017:27017
    environment:
      - MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_USERNAME=admin
      - MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_PASSWORD=secret
    networks:
       - profile-network

  mongo-express:
    container_name: express
    image: mongo-express:1.0-20-alpine3.19
    restart: always # fixes MongoNetworkError when mongodb is not ready when mongo-express starts
    ports:
      - 8080:8081
    environment:
      - ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINUSERNAME=admin
      - ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINPASSWORD=secret
      - ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_SERVER=mongodb
    networks:
       - profile-network
    depends_on:
      - mongodb
~~~
Some points to note::
1. In the top-level networks section of the file, we can declare custom Docker networks. Setting a network's 'external' property to true means the network already exists, and Docker should not try creating it  - recall we created the mongo-network in an earlier lab.
1. Each container instance is termed a service. Hence, an application is comprised of one or more services.
1. Compose can build the image associated with a service/container when its Dockerfile is local, e.g. the app service.
1. We can link a container (service) with one or more networks using the service's networks properly
1. The depends_on setting of service controls the order in which the containers are started. For example, the Mongo database service (mongodb) must start before the app service.
1. As noted previously, the app container cannot use localhost when referring to the MongoDB server. When using Docker Compose, services use service names to reference one another. Consequently, the app service's MONGO_HOST environment variable must be set to mongodb, and the mongo-express service's ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_SERVER variable must be set to mongodb.
1. A service's networks setting controls which networks a container is accessible on. Services that need to communicate must be on the same network,

Before using Docker Compose, delete the local image of the web app if it exists:
~~~bash
£ docker rmi profileapp:1.0
~~~

From the command line in VS Code, type the command:
~~~bash
$ docker-compose -f compose.yaml up -d
~~~
[ the -d option means detached mode[ the alternative is interactive mode.]
This command starts all the services/containers declared in the YAML file. Confirm this with the 'docker ps' command, and test the application as before. Compose refers to the set of containers as a __stack__. 

To delete the stack, type the following:
~~~bash
$ docker-compose -f  compose.yaml down
$ docker ps -a    (All the containers no longer exist)
~~~

To recreate it type:
~~~bash
$ docker-compose -f compose.yaml up -d
~~~
This time Docker does not build the web app image before it creates the stack as it already exists.

Delete the stack again.


### Exercise,

Make the following changes to the above application stack:
+ Change the MongoDB server service's name from mongodb to __database__.
+ Change the top-level networks section to the following:
~~~yaml
   db-network:
       external: false
       name: 'mongodb-network'
~~~
This will create a new network called 'mongodb-network'.
+ Make the necessary change(s) so the web app can be accessed at the address http://localhost:8081/ instead of http://localhost:3000/.

Start the application stack and ensure it still works. The above changes will require you to make other changes in the YAML file. 
