
## Interacting with a Container.

We could not interact with the above containers because we are unfamiliar with the Redis application. A more straightforward image to understand would be NGINX, a web server for static websites. Type the following commands:
~~~bash
 $ docker pull nginx:1.15.8-alpine (The version/tag used (1.15.8-alpine) is arbitrary)
$ docker run -d -p 8080:80 --name nginx-server  nginx:1.15.8-alpine
~~~
+ -p option - Inside the container, the NGINX web server listens on the default port, 80. We must map that port to a host machine port - we choose 8080 arbitrarily. 

In a web browser, navigate to http://localhost:8080/. You should see the default NGINX home page. We can change this page by going inside the container. Open a shell session inside the container as follows:
~~~bash
$ docker exec -it  nginx-server  /bin/sh
~~~
The response shows a command prompt from __inside the container__. You can type any Linux command at this prompt. Type the following command sequence:
~~~bash
/ # ls
/ # env
/ # pwd
/ # cd /usr/share/nginx/html.   (NGINX default home directory)
/ # ls
/ # cat index.html     (The NGINX default home page)
/ # echo "<b>I added a new line ....</b>" >> index.html 
~~~
The last command above adds a new line to the NGINX home page. Refresh the page in the browser to confirm the presence of the new line. 

Type exit to terminate the container shell and return to the host prompt.

The above approach to developing a website hosted by NGINX inside a container is inefficient and slow. A (marginally) better way is to bind or __mount a volume__ (host folder) to the NGINX default website path at run-time. First, create a folder (anywhere on your host computer) and inside it, create the file `index.html` with the following content:
~~~html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>Profile</title>
<style>
    body {
        width: 35em;
        margin: 0 auto;
        font-family: Tahoma, Verdana, Arial, sans-serif;
 }
</style>
</head>
<body>
<h1>My Profile</h1>
<h2>Name: Joe Bloggs</h2>
<p>Professional interests: Web Development, Cloud App Development, Data Science.</p>
<p>Technologies: Docker, React, Python.</p>

<a href="http://nginx.com/">nginx.com</a>.</p>

<p><em>Thank you for using nginx.</em></p>
</body>
</html>
~~~
Now type the following command:
~~~bash
 $ docker run -d -p 8081:80 -v /path/to/new/folder:/usr/share/nginx/html    --name nginx-server2  nginx:1.15.8-alpine
~~~
Where/path/to/new/folder is the absolute path to the folder you just created. The -v (volume) option maps a folder on the host computer to a folder inside the container. In the browser, navigate to http://localhost:8081/ and notice the web page from the host folder is displayed. Edit the page on your host and then refresh the page in the browser. You should see the changes made. 

## Exercise.

The website hosted by NGINX inside the container can be as elaborate as you wish, e.g. CSS, JavaScript, etc. It could also be a React app. Clone the following [repository][react] to your computer:
~~~bash
$ git clone https://github.com/tuanductran/todo-list-vite
~~~
And type the commands from the base folder of the project you just cloned :
~~~bash
$ npm install
$ npm run dev
~~~
The last command above starts a development server to host the React app. Click on the localhost link in the response to see the app running in your browser. It's a simple ToDo app developed with React and the Vite build tool (an alternative to Create React App). Stop the server with cntl/C

In the project, edit the file `vite.config.js` and remove the line:
~~~js
  base: "/todo-app"
~~~
Type the following command from the base folder of the project:
~~~bash
$ npm run build
~~~
This command creates a __static version__ of the React app and places it in a subfolder called `dist`. Take a look inside this folder and notice it has an `index.html`, as well as CSS, JS and an image (SVG). This dist folder is perfect for a Docker container running the NGINX web server.

__You are required__ to start a new container based on the same NGINX Docker image we used earlier. Name the new container 'nginx-react' and map the container's port 80 to the host computer port 3000. The NGINX server should host the static version of the ToDo app. To prove your container works, open a browser tab at http://localhost:3000 and confirm it displays the app.


  
## Cleanup.

Delete all the containers on your host:
~~~bash
$ docker rm -vf $(docker ps -aq)
~~~


[react]: https://github.com/nirdhum/todo-app